Speaker 0    00:00    So just to let you guys know if you're interested in looking at any merchandise, we recently launched a new website with all new stuff that I'm really excited about. So if you'd like to check it out, you can find it, uh, casually explain.com and take a look. One of the most wonderful things about the internet is the ability for people across the world to be able to communicate with each other and share information in the blink of an eye and for modern generations we've chosen to do that through things like this frog or this frog, this frog. And while memes were originally described as an element of culture passed from one individual to another by non genetic means, if we look now at their contemporary use, I think it would be much more accurate to define them as an element of culture passed from one individual to another through the Internet.  
Speaker 0    00:43    The last part being redundant. Because if you're passing names to someone, you're obviously not going to be passing anything onto them genetically. So in order to understand our current memes, we have to start tracing them back to their origins. And that means starting at one of the first means for around 35 years ago, which was lead speak, and this was when people swapped letters for numbers when they were typing because digital pictures literally hadn't been invented yet and there was nothing else to do and while this seems harmless, it eventually led to their most recognizable usage, which is in Gamer tags that look like this and blog press diaries that looked like this. So then around the year 2000, the first picture memes have merged and we're usually just screen caps from video games or online videos like do a barrel roll from Starfox, 60 for the hamster dance, and eventually the all your base are belong to us.  
Speaker 0    01:28    The main from the terribly translated game zero wing. And you might be thinking, well how are these even used? This isn't an awkward unrelatable social situation I can tag my friends with on instagram. And the thing is, back in those days, none of us had any friends. So we would simply repeat the meme out loud in elementary school or post them in response to Yahoo answers threads without context. So listening to move on a bit to around 2007 and social media was just getting big. We started to see memes that were intentionally edited and contrived for comedic effect in order to get people to say Nice meme did, and the first one that comes to my memory unfortunately was the shoot to whoop me, which was the imo firing my laser face from the laser collection youtube video, which was then edited over top of self from Dragon Ball Z. and because of the introduction of the online view count and share button, we saw the moment that sprouted the still persistent id in everyone's mind, which was if I create a shitty meme, maybe I can get some imaginary points on the Internet.  
Speaker 0    02:22    And while most rational people would see that as incredibly stupid and rightfully not want to be around you, how many subscribers do you think they have? And with the growth of sites like four Chan and Reddit, we. So the next big shift in the evolution of meme culture, which was introducing a personal narrative and relate ability to memes in the form of green tech stories and rage comics, the first being cleverly constructed stories with absurd plotter conclusion and the latter being kids exaggerating the struggles of their unremarkable lives, which I of course participated in and while rage calm is completely died off in little over a couple of years for obvious reasons. They did introduce iconic characters such as the troll face, why you no me Gusta and forever alone guy among many other reactions that along with middle school we have collectively repressed. So would that concept of reaction and relate-ability.  
Speaker 0    03:11    We saw the rapid popularization of our first modern meme format, which was an image macro with text overlay in that came in the form of pepe the frog and advice animals, and even here you can still clearly see which one would stand the test of time emerging. From there, we saw one of the most influential genres of modern memes, which are often called me Irl memes, which are supposed to represent the author or me in real life. These are means of a self deprecating, ironic nature that highlight the complete normality of everyday life by either exaggerating the pride of very mundane accomplishments, depicting and inability to function and what's considered a very normal situation or both in the form of Wednesday, frog then going slightly deeper, you have me Irl, one word, which is the same thing and more depressing but still funny, and then even deeper than that, you have to meet Irl.  
Speaker 0    03:59    For me, irl, which is literally just depression. However, in response to that, we saw the simultaneous emergence of wholesome memes, which is a convergence of irl and anti jokes were depressing. Punchline is set up with a wholesome twist, although unfortunately we have seen a lot of these memes border on motivational posts and complements rather than actual memes, which I personally find more insufferable than to me irl, irl. For reasons I choose to ignore so closely related to the irl, we have one of my favorite types of memes which are starter pack names, and these are simply multi-image collages that depict an unexpected stereotype with shocking accuracy that you thoroughly enjoy until you find one about you. Similar to those kinds of labeled means we have progression means which are constructed with logical progression through each of the images and while these can be very versatile, they also usually only last until people can't add any more progression without losing your attention, which is around four pictures, so now if you take a regular person who looks at memes for enjoyment rather than coping, you see another genre of questionably executed memes that are effectively made to make you feel good and I think the perfect example of that is rare peppers, which is a wholesome dog parody of rare pepe, which are commodified pep, a photoshops, and also holds genre of animal gifts spelled with alternating capitals and words like Doggo pepper and other baby talk that I intellectually despise.  
Speaker 0    05:18    The can't stop looking at because I'm so happy. Thankfully gatekeeping, the art forum, we of course have Dank memes which are memes that mock other memes that are past their shelf life or use in a non comedic overplayed fashion. And these are generally crafted by the fine. Mine's over four. Chan who were one push away from falling off their own edge and in a similar vein, we also have self satirizing means like deep fried memes and Reddit subreddits like meme economy that buy or sell stock and upcoming format, and if I know anything about people on the Internet, which I am one of, I know that memes are seen a lot like high art, which means I know that at this point in the video there are people who'd say so when you get into the real names and there are people who'd say, you lost me at rare puppers because they literally opened a new tab to look at those, and while I know people, the first category probably don't think I know anything about memes, and people at the second category are questioning if they still want to see me in real life.  
Speaker 0    06:08    It's literally impossible for me to cover every sub genre of meme, but do bear in mind. The list does go on to include enemy means despot. Sita means Shrek means b movie meme, Scooby Doo meme, spongebob memes, black people, twitter memes, white people, twitter memes, insane people. Facebook memes. Madd, lad, memes that happened means porn memes, toy story, memes, memes. Where did the soda go? Meme stock image means minecraft means Gus Johnson's entire youtube channel slaps roof of <inaudible>. Current means, fortnight means and literally thousands of others. That does make you wonder the final question, which is with so many memes being created and abandoned, where did these memes come from and where do they go? And the answer to that is fairly simple. First, an actual piece of content is created. The meme is born on four, chan filtered and popularized on reddit spread to your average person on instagram, tumblr and twitter. MEME is dead. Jimmy Fallon uses it in a segment. Your parents in large corporations use it incorrectly on facebook, unfortunately, makes fun of those people with new name and the cycle continues, which makes you wonder where in the process of this video might be. And according to one of my favorite quotes about comedy, explaining a joke is like dissecting a frog. You understand it better, but it dies in the process. 
