Speaker 0    00:00    What keeps you up at night?  
Speaker 0    00:04    Well, it's quite hard to run companies. Yeah. Especially car companies. How does. They was quite challenging. The car business is the hardest one of all the things you do. Yes, because it's a consumer oriented business as opposed to like space x and not that space x space x is no walk in the park, but. But a car company, it's very difficult to keep a company alive. It's very difficult. You know, there's only two car companies and the history of American car companies that haven't gone bankrupt. And that's Ford and Tesla. That's it. Yeah. Ford wrote out that crazy storm. Huh? They're the only ones getting their teeth shout out to the Mustang. Yeah. Yeah. By the skin of their teeth. That is interesting. Right? Same with Tesla. We barely survived. How close did you get to folding? Very close. We, uh, or 2008 is not a good time to be a car company, especially a startup car company and especially an electric car company. That was stupidity squared. And this is when you had those cool roadsters with the towel, with a target top. Yeah. We had like a, he was a highly modified elise chassis. The body was all completely different by the way. I was like super diamond strategy that we actually did.  
Speaker 0    01:25    It was based on false premises. One false premise was that we'd be able to cheaply convert the Lotus Elise, um, and use that as a core platform and that we will be able to use technology from this little company called ace propulsion for the electric drive train. And the battery problem is AC propulsion technology to not work in production. And we ended up using none of it in longterm. None of it. We have to redesign everything. And then the, once you add a battery pack and electric motor to the cart, got heavier, cut 30 percent heavier, invalidated the entire structure, all the crash structure, everything had to be redone,  
Speaker 0    02:11    nothing like that. I think it had less than seven percent of the parts were common with any other device including cars or anything than seven percent. Yes. Everything including tires and wheels, bolts, breaks even every year. And we'll see the steering wheel was. I think the steering wheel was almost the same. Yes. The, the, the, the windscreen windscreen? No, I think the wintergreen is the same. Yes. I think. I think we were able to keep the last seven percent. So that's basically every body panel was different. The entire structure was different. The uh, W W we couldn't use the H, like the HVAC system, the veto, the air conditioner was belt driven, air conditioner off. So now we needed something that was electrically driven which needed a new AC compressor and all that takes away from the battery life as well, right? Yeah. We needed a small, highly efficient air conditioning system that fit in a tiny car and was electrically powered, not belt driven. Very difficult. How much do those weigh those cars? The roadster, I think it was about 2,700 pounds. That's still very independent. Which version? Twenty six? Fifty two, 27, 50 pounds, something like that. And what was the weight distribution?  
Speaker 0    03:30    It was about 50. Well there were different versions of the car. So it about 55 on the rear because we're, we're, we're bias, right. But not bad. Like considering like a nine slash 11, which is like one of the most popular sports cards of all time heavy. We're an bias. Well, I mean, yeah, the nine slash 11 joke is like the ventured despite Newton not being on their side. If you have fighting Newton, it's very difficult. Well it's like if you've got this moments of inertia on nine slash 11, don't make any sense. They do. Once you understand them, once you understood, don't want to hang the engine off the ass. This is not a wise move. You don't want to let up on the gas. When you're in a corner, you, you're the problem with, uh, with, with, uh, with, with something. That's where the engine is mounted over the rear axle or off the rear axle.  
Speaker 0    04:22    Towards the rear is that your pull moment of inertia is fundamentally screwed. You cannot solve this. It's unsolvable. You're screwed. You're screwed. Right? Like essentially, if you spun the car like a top, that's your moment of inertia. You're just, I promised they wouldn't swear on this show by the way. Really? So it was for a friend. Tell that friend to go fuck himself. Who told you not to swear? I read a good friend. Realize you're fucking Elan Musk can do whatever you want, man. If you ever get confused, call me elsewhere and private. Swear up a storm to say fricken. It's fun way. There's like old house moms, wives and shit that have children. Oh freaking thing. Yeah. But anyway, like the Porsche, it's kind of incredible how well Porsche handles given that, uh, it's the physics, the moments of inertia are so messed up, uh, to actually still make it work well is, is incredible.  
Speaker 0    05:28    Well, if you know how to turn into the corner and once you get used to the feeling of it, there's actual benefits to it, you know, there, there are some benefits. I enjoy the car I had before. Tesla was a nine slash 11. Okay. That was nine slash nine slash seven or six 97. Yeah. Yeah. Great car man. Yeah. I mean particularly with the Porsche Tower when they had the variable veins, the turbo and yet didn't have the turbo lag. That was great. Yeah, that was really great. But turbo lag was, is like, you know, you floor it like phone, home, call your mom, the older one, but an hour later the car accelerates. Super dangerous too because in the real world starts spinning. Yeah. Yeah. There's something fun about it though, like feeling that rear weight kicking around, you know. And again that's quite efficient. I could feel to it.  
Speaker 0    06:17    Yeah, I agree. But that's, that's what I was talking about earlier about that little car that I have 93, nine slash 11. It's just, there's, it's not fast, it's not, it's not the best handling car but it's more satisfying than any other car I have because it's so mechanical. It's like everything about it like cracks, holes and bumps and it gives you all this feedback and I take it to the comedy store because when I get there I feel like my brain is just pop in and it's on fire. It's like a strategy for me now that I, I really stopped driving other cars there. I drive that car there just for the brain juice, just for the, the inner, the interaction. I mean you should try model s, p 100 d will blow your mind your skull. Okay. Yeah. Tell me what to order. I'll order it or less people. One Hundred D. okay. Jamie, just lift car that I drive. Okay. Okay. I'll get with the car you drive. Okay. It will blow your mind out of your spirit. I believe you. How can I drive 300 miles? That's good for la. Regular days. You'll never notice the battery. Never. Never. How hard is it to get like one of them crazy plugs installed in your house that difficult? Now it's super easy. It's like. Yeah, it's like a dryer plug. It's like a dryer outlet. 
