Speaker 1    00:04    It's finally here, the reason you left to take your shirt off at solo music festivals, as many of you may know from facebook, etc. Nyc is this weekend, etc. Is like a gay woodstock but better. It's a weekeNd long. Have region face and punishing Your body and trust me, you don't want to lose your swole after day one, so if you don't want to Come in and look and to read a source, flex and leave looking like poetry, I don't know. Juice diet, after three hours, spin class. Here's what to pack for your weekend. Long parking lot noise. Ology. First up, go with the drawstring bag. This is standard new shoe, bro. Here, you're handed one of these. As soon as you realize neon is the new pastel, use wire drawstring bag is ideal. The only reason you wherever should is to pop it off. For those brief seconds, you're forced to wear a body condom before you raw dog the world. The drawstring bag is ideal for that upside down. ChrIstmas treat taper. Just tuck your shirt back and prepare for the v and by vip badge. Hands over a problem when you're not clutching on him, you don't know what to do with them. Like what do I do with these muscle clause? Do I just make fists all the time? The drawstring bag is great for occupying your hands during complicated activities such as shuffling or standing around. In a perfect world, we'd be able to stand around all the time and the flex rocket pope  
Speaker 1    01:26    right there, my biceps, so flex my last spread. My chest is out, my traps are on track, on flexing out. I'm rocking out. I'm doing everything I shouldn't be doing with the drawstring bag. Now we can always be flex rocket. Now what to pack first thing in the bag. First thing in the bud protein powder. Without protein, you're basically just a regular person and now you're going to want to figure out how many scoops you need to brake. WarnIng just falls heavy calculus. Okay, you're there for two days and you need to figure out how many servings you need a day. Six meals a day equals six servings a day. A serving is two scoops. A scoop is one thing. You then take this raw data and you email it to nasa and then await the results. I actually have my results right here. Hey my. I finally got the nasa results. What they want to come down for this. Just like we got 24 schools, so basically just a small tub of protein with.  
Speaker 0    02:32    Yeah.  
Speaker 1    02:34    Who needs with the protein right there. Don't forget to scoop. The scoop is where protein comes from without the scoop your shooting blanks in the dark. You shit your cup. Make sure to bring the right shaker cup, not too big, not too small and without a bunch of gadgets that collect bacteria like blend the balls and shake offenses because after the in your unwashed all weekend, your shaker cup was going to make a bowl. I'll look like a bowl of lucky charms. We will push me boss, don't kid yourself. They will be no food at edc except for the chilean sea bass. Contrary to popular belief, catabolic is not just a dj and cat is the depth of your muscles and the end of the world is you know it. You want to stop this swollen cost, you're going to need some beds, mystery calories to feed your muscles, preferably in the form of robbery, putting logs, meal replacement bars that tire scraps, making them a perfect option. Did you want when role in fish town? What's the meat head party stack without pre workout? When I'm raging, I don't just want my heart to beat inside my chest. I want it to grow inside my chest. This is a quick, easy way to oil your muscles up and snag a sick 10. It can also be used as a quick shot of the central fast in a pitch. Keep those us up. God,  
Speaker 1    04:22    you're going to be swagging down one protein every hour and you're going to be dehydrated from all the Mali. There is nothing worse than dry mouth and protein. Breath smells like you just chewed on iron man's dick and there you have it. The essential, etc. Survival back or as I like to call it, the bag  
Speaker 0    04:49    we do. 
