Speaker 1    00:33    Good morning, good morning. So what I would what to do today is pick up on our basic theme of molecular biology. We've talked about DNA replication, the transcription of DNA into rna and the translation of RNA and protein. We discussed last time some of the variations between different types of organisms, viruses, prokaryotes, you carry with respect to the details of how they do that. In general, that virus bacteria have circular DNA chromosomes typically that eukaryotes have linear chromosomes, etc. What I'd like to talk about today is variation, but variation not between organisms but within an organism from time to time and place to place, namely how it is that some genes or gene activities are turned on on some occasions and turned off on other occasions. This is obviously a very important problem to an organism, particularly to somebody like you Who's a multIcellular organism and has the same dna instruction set and all of your cells.  
Speaker 1    02:08    It's a. It's obviously quite important to make sure that the same basic code is doing different things in different cells. it's important also to a bacterium to make sure that it's doing different things at different times depending on its environment. So I'm going to talk about a very particular system today as an illustration of how genes are regulated, but before we do that, let's ask where are the different places in this picture? Dna goes to dna goes to rna, goes to protein in which you might in principle, regulates the activity of a gene. Could you regulate the activity of a gene by actually changing the dna encoded in the genome? So why not? This is what becomes a different gene. Yeah. Well that's just the definition, but in why? Why wouldn't, why couldn't the cell just decide that I want this gene now to change in some way. I'm going to, oh, I don't know. All altered the dna sequence in some way. Um, and that'll make the gene work. Could that happen? Is that allowed? Yeah. Turns out to happen. It's not the most common thing and it's not the thing we'll talk about in the textbooks a lot, but you can actually do regulation. So the levels of regulation  
Speaker 0    03:37    are  
Speaker 1    03:39    nanny and one is actually the level of of dna rearrangements as we'll come to later in the course. For example, your immune system creates new functional genes by rearranging locally some pieces of dna, some bacteria, particularly infectious organisms control whether genes are turned on or off by actually going in there and flipping around a piece of dna in their chromosome and that's how they turn the gene on or off is they actually go in and change the genome. There's some protein that actually flips the orientation of a segment of dna. Now these are a little funky and we're not going to talk a lot about them, but you should know almost anything that can happen does happen and gets exploited in different ways, uh, by organisms. So dna rearrangement certainly happens. it's rare, but it's always cool when it happens. So it's fun to look at and something like the immune system can't be dismissed as simply an oddity. That's an incredibly important thing. The most common form is at the level of transcriptional regulation where whether or not a transcript gets made is how it's how it's processed can be different. First off, the initiation of transcription,  
Speaker 1    05:00    that dna, that rna polymerase should happen to sit down at this gene. I'm on this occasion and start transcribing it is potentially regulatable step that maybe you're only going to turn on the gene for beta globin and alpha globin that together make the two components of hemoglobin and you're only to turn them on and red blood cells or red blood cell precursors and that could be done at the level of whether or not you make the message in the first place. That's one place it can be done. Another place is the splicing choices that you make with respect to your message. You get this thing with a number of different potential, exxon's and you can regulate how this gene is used by deciding to splice it this way and skip over that exxon perhaps or not. Skip over that exxon. That alternative splicing is a powerful to regulate  
Speaker 0    05:58    and then finally you can also regulate at the level of mr and a stability.  
Speaker 1    06:06    Stability means the persistence of the message of the degradation of the method message. It could be that in certain cells the message is protected so that it hangs around longer and and other cells, perhaps it's unprotected and it's degraded very rapidly. If it's degraded very rapidly, it doesn't get a chance to make a protein or maybe it doesn't get to make too many copies of the protein. If it's persistent for a long time, it can make a lot of copies of protein. All of those things can and do occur. Then of course there is the regulation at the level of translation  
Speaker 1    06:45    translation. If I give you an mr and a is it automatically going to be translated? Maybe the cell has a way to sequester the rna to wrap it up in some way so that it doesn't get to the ribosomes under some conditions and under other conditions. It does get to the ribosome or some ways to block in other manners than than just sequestering it, but to physically block whether or not this message gets translated. What turns out that there's a tremendous amount of that. It's, again, not the most common, but we're learning specific particular over the last couple of years that regulation of the translation of an mr and a is important. There are, although I won't talk about them at length and exciting new set of genes called micro rna arrays, teeny little rns that encode 21, 22 base pair segments that are able to pair with a messenger rna and interfere in some ways partially with its translatability and so by the numb, by the number and the kinds of little micro rna is that are they're organisms can tweak up or down how actively a particular message is being translated.  
Speaker 1    07:53    So the ability to regulate translation in a number of different ways is important. And then of course there's post-translational control. Once a protein is made, there's post-translational regulation that could happen. It could be that the protein is modified in some way. Uh, the protein say completely inactive unless you put a phosphate group on it and some enzyme comes along and puts a phosphate group on it or the or it's active until you take off the. And so you take off inactive. So you take off the phosphate group. All sorts of post translational modifications can occur to proteins, um, after the, the amino acid chain is made that can affect whether or not the protein is at every one of these is potentially a step by which an organism can regulate whether or not you have a certain biochemical activity presence in a certain amount at a certain time.  
Speaker 1    08:47    And every one of these gets used. This is the thing about coming to a system that has been in the process of evolution for three and a half billion years, is that even the little differences can be fought over as competitive advantages and can be fixed by an organism. So if a tiny little thing began to help the organism slightly, it could reach fixation and you're coming along to this system which has had about three and a half billion years of patches to the, to the software code and uh, you know, it's, it's just got all sorts of layers of regulation piled on top of it. All of these things happen.  
Speaker 0    09:21    But  
Speaker 1    09:24    what we think is the most important  
Speaker 0    09:27    out of this whole collection is this guy.  
Speaker 1    09:35    The fundamental place at which you're going to regulate whether or not you have the product of a gene is whether you bothered to transcribe it's rna. But I do want to say because yes,  
Speaker 1    09:54    which exxon's are used in which aren't. Yeah, well there are tissue specific factors that are our genes specific that can influence that. And surprisingly little is known about the details. There are a couple of cases where people know, but as you'd imagine you actually need a regulatory system in that tissue to be able to decide to skip over that exxon and the mechanics of that surprisingly are understood in very few cases. And you might think that evolution wouldn't you like to use that as the most common things. You really do have to make a specialized thing to do that. So that's what happens on these, the I, you know, that's one in particular where I think a tremendous amount more work has to happen. Mr. Rna stability, we understand some of it, but not all the factors in this business I was telling you about. Translation with these little micro rna is stuff that's really only a few years old that people have come to understand. So there's a lot to be understood about these things. I'm going to tell you about initiation of mr and a's because it's the area where we know the most and I think it'll give you a good idea of the general paradigm. But, uh, any of you who want to go into this, we'll find that there's a tremendous amount more to still be discovered about these things. So  
Speaker 1    11:03    the amount of protein that a cell might make varies wildly. Um, your red blood cells. Eighty percent of your red blood cells protein is alpha or beta globin to huge amount. That's not true in any other cell in your body, so we're talking about pretty significant ranges of differences, the how much protein is made, how to things like that happen. Well, I'm going to describe the simplest than classic case of gene regulation in bacteria  
Speaker 1    11:39    and in particular the famous lac operan of lie. So this was the first case in which regulation was ever really worked out and it stands today as a very good paradigm of how regulation works equally in order to grow, needs a carbon source in particular, equalize fond of sugar. It would like to have a sugar to grow given a choice. What's equalized? Favorite sugar. Glucose, right? Because we have, you know, the, the whole cycle of glucose, the whole pathway of glucose goes to pyruvate, which we've talked about, and glucose is the preferred sugar to go into that pathway. okay. Of glycolysis, glycolysis, the breakdown of glucose, but supposedly there's no glucose available. Is in kolai willing to have a different sugar? Sure. Because coal is not stupid. If it was at a refuse another sugar and I wouldn't be able to grow. so it has a variety of pathways that will shunt other sugars to glucose, which will then allow you to go through glycolysis, etc. Now given a choice, it would prefer to use the glucose, but if not, suppose you gave it lactose. Lactose is a dye saccharide. It's milk sugar.  
Speaker 0    13:17    I'll just briefly sketch.  
Speaker 1    13:30    So lactose is a dye saccharide where you've got a glucose and galactose. Glucose plus galactose equals lactose. So if ecolab is given, galactose is able to break it down into glucose plus galactose and it does that by a particular enzyme called beta go whack toe sideways, which breaks down beta, galactose sides, and it'll give you galactose plus glucose. How much beta side is this nikolai cell have around.  
Speaker 0    14:28    Sorry,  
Speaker 1    14:29    none. But how does he do this when it needs it? a little synthesizer when it needs it, like there's no glucose and there's a lot of galactose around. How much of it will there be? A lot turns out that in circumstances ecolab is DepeNdent on gAlactose is it's fueled something like 10 percent of total protein can be beta gal under the circumstances when you have galactose, but no glucose. Sorry, sorry, lactose when you have lactose, but no glucose. Thank you. So when you have lactose, but no glucose, eco lie has 10 percent of its protein wave is bagel exercise. Wow. But when you have glucose around or you don't have lactose around, you have very little. Could be almost none trace amounts. So why do this? Why not, for example, just have a far more reasonable, you know, some compromise like that's just always have one percent of, of a neglect of physical activities. And so I'm around why do we need the zero to 10 percent? Ten percent is actually extremely high.  
Speaker 0    16:02    Yeah.  
Speaker 1    16:04    But so what? It's good insurAnce policy.  
Speaker 1    16:12    Oh. So If I only have black, I need more. Well, I mean one percent will still digest it. I'll still do it. What's the problem? Sorry. Slow people are so what I do at a slower rate, life's life's long. Why not? Ah, it has to compete. So if the cell to the left had a mutation that got into produced four times as much than it would soak up the galactose, lactose in the environment, grow faster, etc. Etc. And we get out competed so these, these little tuning mutations have a huge effect amongst this competing a population of bacteria. And so if he call, I currently thinks that it's really good to have almost none at sometimes in 10 percent at other times you can bet that it's work that out through the product of pretty rigorous competition that it doesn't want to waste the energy making this when you don't need it and that when you do need it, you really have to compete hard by growing as fast as you can when you have that galactose around it. Lactose around. Okay. So how does it actually, uh, get the lactose. Sorry, keep me honest on lactose versus galactose into the cell. Turns out that it also has another gene product and other protein which is a lactose permease. And uh, any guesses as to what a lactose permease does?  
Speaker 1    17:35    It makes the cell permeable to lactose, right? Good. Um, so the lactose can get into the cell and then beta gal can break it down into galactose plus glucose. These two things, in fact, both get regulated data gal and this lack toes permease. So how does it work?  
Speaker 0    17:57    No.  
Speaker 1    18:02    Let's take a look now at the structure of the lac opera on. So I mentioned briefly last time, what's an operation?  
Speaker 0    18:19    Right?  
Speaker 1    18:20    Remember we said that in bacteria you often made a transcript that had multiple proteins that were encoded on it. A single mr and a could get made and multiple starts for translation could occur and you could make multiple proteins and this would be a good thing if you wanted those proteins, if you want it to make a bunch of proteins that were part of the same biochemical pathway, such an object, a regulated piece of dna that makes the transcript and coating multiple poly peptides is called an opera wrong because they are operated together. So let's take a look here at the lack opera. I said there was a promoter. Here is a promoter for the opera ron, and we'll call it p lac promoter for the lac operan. Here is the first gene that is encoded, so the message will start here, x amount here and start going off in. The first gene is given the name, lac z. It happens to encode beta. Go act is enzyme, remember they did a mutants hunts and when they did the mutant hunt, they didn't know what each gene was is they isolated mutans, so they just gave them names of letters and so it's called lac z and everybody in like your biology knows this is the lag z gene, although <inaudible> has nothing to do with beta glucosidase. It was just the letter given to it, but it's stuck. Next is whack. Why? And that encodes the permease  
Speaker 1    20:08    and there is also lack a which encodes a trans acetylene and as far as I'm concerned, you can forget about it. Okay. But I just mentioned that it is there and it actually does make three poly peptides. We won't worry about it. Okay. But it does make a transit satellites. Okay. But it won't figure it out. We're going to talk about, and actually remarkably little is known about the transit satellites. There's also one other gene I need to talk about and that's over here and that's cold lack I and it too has a promoter which we can call p for the promoter for lack of I. And this encodes a very interesting protein. So we get here one message and coating one polypeptide here. This mr and encodes one poly peptide. It is mano stronick. This guy here is a poly ces stronick message. It has multiple cysts, strawns, which was the dusty old name for these regions that were translated into distinct proteins. And so that's that mr. And a so, uh,  
Speaker 0    21:36    black eye,  
Speaker 1    21:39    this encodes a very interesting protein which is called the lac repressor. The lac repressor.  
Speaker 0    21:57    I shouldn't bring this down a moment.  
Speaker 1    22:02    He's not an enzyme. It's not a cell surface trans channel for putting in black those. It is a dna binding proteins. It binds to dna, but it's not a nonspecific dna binding protein that binds to any old dna. It has a sequence specific preference. It's a protein that has a particular conformation, that particular shape, particular set of amino acids sticking out that it can bind into the major groove of dna in a sequence specific fashion such that he particularly likes to recognize a certain sequence of nucleotides and binds there. Where is the specific sequence of nucleotides were? This guy likes to bind it so happens that it's there and this is called the operator sequence or the operator's site. So this protein likes to go and bind there. Now I, I've drawn this by the way, so that this operator's site is actually right, overlapping the promoter site. Who likes to bind to the promoter site? Rna polymerase. What? What's going to happen if lac, the lac repressor is sitting  
Speaker 0    23:46    there,  
Speaker 1    23:49    rna polymerase can't bind. It's just physically satirically blocked from binding. so, uh, let's examine some cases here. Let's suppose  
Speaker 0    24:06    that  
Speaker 1    24:07    we look at here at our gene, we've got our promoter p lack. We've got the operator's site here, we've got the z gene here, and we've got the lac repressor black eye, the repressors sitting there. Polymerase tries to come along to this and glymerase tries to come along to this and it's blocked. So what will happen in terms of the transcription of the lac opera? No, mr. And a, that's great. So we've solved one problem right off the bat. We want to be sure that sometimes there's going to be no mr and a made this way. We're not gonna waste any metabolic energy making beta, galactose side is.  
Speaker 0    25:10    Are we done? No. Why not?  
Speaker 1    25:16    We got to sometimes make beta cholic is so we've got to get that repressor off there. Well, how's the repressor going to come off there? When do we want the repressor off there when there's lactose present? So somehow we need to build some kind of an elaborate sensory mechanism that is able to tell when lactose is present and send the signal to the repressor protein saying, hey, lactose is around. We sense that the signal gets transmitted to all the way to the repressor protein in there, press protein comes off. What kind of an elaborate sensory mechanism might we build? Use lactose as what? So you're saying like, so this is actually pretty simple. You're saying just take lactose and if lactose, the lactose to be its own signal. So if lactose were to just bind to the repressor, the repressor might then know that there was lactose around. Well how, how, what would it do if it reflect those bound to it?  
Speaker 0    26:23    Sorry,  
Speaker 1    26:25    how could it, why would it fall off?  
Speaker 0    26:31    Yep.  
Speaker 1    26:37    More Interested in the lactose, so if, if you're a suggestion, this is I liked the design work going on here, the suggestion is that if lactose binds to this here,  
Speaker 1    26:53    binds to our repressor, it's going to fall off because it's more interested in lactose. Then in the dna. Now how is the interest actually conveyed into something material because the actual level of of you know cognitive, like or dislike for dna on the part of this immune poly peptide is an unclear and we may be anthropomorphizing slightly with regard to this polypeptide chain. So mechanistically, what's going to happen shape, yes, shape change, confirmation the binding act, the act of binding lactose create some energy may change the shape of the protein and that shape of the protein may in the process of wiggling around to bind lactose may d wiggle some other part of it that that now no longer binds to dna. That is exactly what happens. Good job and so you guys have designed, in fact what really happens. What happens is what's called an aloe stearic  
Speaker 0    27:51    change  
Speaker 1    27:53    just means other shape, so it just changes its shape that it changes shape unbinding of lactose,  
Speaker 0    28:06    and it falls off  
Speaker 1    28:08    because it's less suitable for binding this particular dna sequence when it's bound to lactose there. So in this case, in the presence of app lactose lack, I does not bind.  
Speaker 0    28:35    And  
Speaker 1    28:37    the wac opera on is transcribed.  
Speaker 0    28:47    Yes.  
Speaker 1    28:51    Oh okay. Alright. Designers here, we've got a problem. You have such a cool system, right? You are going to sense lactose. Lactose was going to bind to the lac opera, like lac repressor change its confirmation fall off. Oh, but as you pointed out, how's it going to get any lactose because there's not a lactose permease because the lactose permease is made by the same opera on,  
Speaker 0    29:36    oh,  
Speaker 1    29:36    so what if in fact instead of getting one of these dod mil spec kinds of have some repressor that is absolutely so tight that it never falls off under any circumstances. What if we build this a slightly sloppy repressor that occasionally falls off and occasionally allows transcription of the lac operan. Then we'll have some trace quantities of permeates around with a little bit of permeates around a little lactose will get in and as long as even a little lactose gets in, it'll now shift the equilibrium so that the repressor is off more. And of course that'll make more permease and shift and shift and shift and shift. So as long as it's not so perfectly engineered is to have nothing being transcribed. So no mr. And a is really very little  
Speaker 0    30:25    mr and a  
Speaker 1    30:27    see, this is what's so good, I think about having mit students learn this stuff because there are all sorts of wonderful design principles here, um, about how you build systems. And I think it's, this is just a very good example of how you build a system now. Um, all right, so we now have the ability to have black on and lack off and that is lack off mostly off because of your permeates problem. Very good. now let's take a little digression about how do we know this?  
Speaker 1    31:00    This kind of reasoning. I've now told you the answer, but let's actually take a look at understanding the evidence that lets you conclude this. So in order to do this, and this is the work famous work in molecular biology was jacobian mono. I'm in the late fifties for which they won a nobel prize. They wanted to collect Some humans. Remember, thIs is before the times of dna sequence or anything like that. I wanted to collect mutants that affected this process, so in order to collect mutants that screwed up the regulation they wanted, they. They knew that beta galactus days was produced in much higher quantity. If lactose was around, the difficulty with that was that you know wild type eco lie when you had no lactose  
Speaker 1    32:03    would produce very little beta gal, one unit of beta gal, and in the presence of lactose would produce a lot, let's call it a thousand units of beta gal, but the problem with with playing around with is lactose is serving two different roles. Lactose is both the inducer of the expression of the gene by virtue binding to the repressor, et cetera, et cetera, but it's also the substrate for the enzyme because as the lactose gets, as beta glycoside is, gets made, it breaks down the so there's less lactose and binding and if you wanted to really study the regulatory controls, you have the problem that the thing that's inducing the gene by binding to the repressor is the thing that's getting destroyed by the product of the gene. So it's gonna make the kinetics of studying such a process really messy. It would be very nice if you could make a form of galacto lactose that could induce state of black the saturdays by binding to the oppressor, but wasn't itself digested chemically. In fact, you can do that chemically. It's possible to make a molecule called ip tg,  
Speaker 0    33:23    which is,  
Speaker 1    33:25    hey, go act aside analog, and what it does is this molecule here, which I'll just sketch very quickly here, so sulfur there, and it's you can see vaguely similar. This is able to be an inducer. It'll induce beta gal, but not a sub straights.  
Speaker 1    33:57    It won't get digested, so it'll stick around as long as you want. It's also very convenient to use a molecule that was developed called x gail x gal again as a sugar moiety, and then it also has this kind of a funny double ring here do, do, do, do which has a chlorine and bromine and etc. And this guy here is not an inducer. It's not capable of being induced of inducing beta is expression, but it is a substrate. It will be broken down by the enzyme and rather neatly when it's broken down, it turns blue. These two chemicals turned that to be very handy in trying to work out the regulation of the lac operan. So if I, instead of adding lactose, if I think about adding ip t g, my inducer, when I add I ptg I'm going to get paid to go produced what? I don't have ip tg, I won't produce pay to go, but then I have any problem of this good thing get used up. So now what kind of might I look for? I might look for a mutant that even in the absence of the inducer ip, tg still produces a lot of beta gal.  
Speaker 1    35:46    well, I can also look for mutants that no matter what, never produced a to go right, but what would they likely be? They'd likely be structural mutations affecting the coding sequence. A beta gal, right? Those will happen. I can collect mutations that never produce the call. I never did produce beta gal, but that's not as interesting as collecting mutations that block the repression that caused beta gal to be produced all of the time. So, uh, how would I, how would I find such a mutant? I want to find a mutant that's producing a lot of beta gal even when there's no white ptg. So let's plates in nikolai on a plate. Should we put ipd on the plate now? So no ipg, what do I look for? How do I tell whether or not any of these guys here is producing a lot of a to go?  
Speaker 0    36:39    Yep.  
Speaker 1    36:43    So, so no ip dg, but put on x gao and if anybody has x, if, if anybody's, a lot of beta guy, what happens? They turn blue, very easy to go through lots of ecolab. I like that looking for something blue and so lots of mutants were collected that were blue and these, these chemicals are still used today. They're routinely used in labs x gal and and stuff like that, making, making bugs turn blue because this has turned out to be such a well studied system that we use it for a lot of things. So mutants were found that work constituent to have mutans constituents of newton's meaning expressing all the time, no longer regulated. So a characterizing these constituent of mutants.  
Speaker 1    37:40    It turns out that they fell into two different classes of constituent of mutants. If we had enough time and you could read the papers at all, what I would do is give you the descriptions that you're coban no had of these funny mutants which they'd isolated and we're trying to characterize and had to puzzle out what was going on, but it's complicated and hard and makes your head hurt. If you don't know what the answer is, so I'm going to first tell you the answer of what's going on and then sort of see how you would know that this was the case. Um, but imagine that you didn't know this answer and uh, and, and had a puzzle this out from the data. So suppose we had. So there are really two kinds of mutans mutans. Number one  
Speaker 0    38:27    are  
Speaker 1    38:30    operator constituents. They have a defective operator. Sequence mutations have occurred at the operator's site. Number two, our repressor have a defective repressor protein, the gene for the repressor protein. How can I tell the difference so I could have a problem with my operator site? What woulD be the problem with the operator site? Some mutatioN to the sequence cAuses the repressor not to bind there anymore. Okay, so defective operator's site doesn't bind. Repressor, defective repressor. The operator's site is just fine, but I don't ever press her to bind that it. So how do I tell the difference?  
Speaker 1    39:27    One way to tell the differences to begin crossing the mutants together to wilD type aNd Asking are they dominant or recessive or things like that. And here's a little problem. Ecolab is not a deployed, so you can't like cRoss together to equalize, make a deployed he call right. It's a precarious. It oNly hAs one genome, but it turns out that you could make temporary deploys partial diploids out of ecolab because it turns out you can make bacteria. Bacteria which have a bacterial chromosome here, also engage in sex, and in the course of bacterial sex plasmids can be transferred, called is, for example, in f factor is able to be transferred from another bacteria and through the wonders of of a partial miro diploidy, you can temporarily get equalize or even permanently get equalize that are partially deployed. So I could see you can do what I'm about to say, but in case you were worried about my writing deploy, genotypes ricola, you can actually do this. you can make partial diploids. So let's try out a gina type here. Suppose the repressor is wild type. The operator is wild type and the waxy gene is wild type. And suppose I have no ip. Tiji, I'm an induced. I have one unit of beta gal.  
Speaker 1    40:56    When I add my inducer, what happens? I get a thousand units of beta gal. Now suppose I would have an operator constitutive mutation. Then the operator side is the fact that it doesn't bind. The repressor beta gal is going to be expressed all the time, even in the absence. All right, well that was of course when we selected for now suppose I made the following deployed. I plus o plus z plus over I plus. Oh, constitutive z plus. So here's my deployed. What will be the phenotype then? so in other words, one of the chromosomes has an operator problem.  
Speaker 1    41:55    Well that means that this chromosome here is always going to be constitutively expressing beta gal. But what about this chromosome here? It won't. So this would be about a thousand and one you have a retake because it's got one chromosome doing that in one of something like this and this one would be about 2000. Now, that quantitative difference doesn't matter a lot. What you really saw when you did the molecular biology was that when you had one copy of the operator, constituent of mutation, you still got a lot of beta gal here, even in the presence, even in the absence of ipg, so that operator constituent of site looked like it was dominance to this plus site here, but now let's try this one. Here I plus o plus z plus over I plus operator Constitutive z minus what happens then? This operator constituent of site allows constant transcription of this particular copy, but can this particular copy make a working functional beta gal? No. So this looks, when you do your genetic crosses, you find that the operator constituent of. Now, if I reverse these here, suppose I reverse these, I plus o plus z minus I plus, oh, constituent of z plus same genotypes, right? Except that I flipped which chromosome these are on. Now what happens, this chromosome here  
Speaker 1    43:43    always making beta gal and it works. This chromosome here, not making beta gal, even though it's regulated, it's a mutant. So in other words, from this very experiment, you can tell that the operator's site is only affecting the chromosome, that it's physically on, that it's not a protein, it doesn't make a protein that floats around. What it does is it said to work in cis,  
Speaker 0    44:16    okay?  
Speaker 1    44:19    Insists means on the same chromosome. It physically works on the same chromosome. Now let's a look by contrast of the properties of the eye of the lac repressor mutes. If I give you a lac repressor mutant I plus, o plus z plus is the wild type I constituent of old plus z. Plus what happens here. This wild type is one in a thousand. This guy here, a thousand and a thousand. And then here, let's look at a deployed I plus o plus c plus I constitutive. Oh, plus z plus. What's the effect? The I constitutive doesn't make a functioning repressor, but I plus makes a functioning repressor. So will this show regulation? yeah, this will be regulated just fine. This works out just fine and in fact it will make 2000 and it will make two copies there. But again, the units don't matter too much and by contrast, if I give you I plus o plus z minus and I constitutive, oh, plus z plus what will happen here, I have my mutation on chromosome, but it doesn't matter because my. I've got my mutation on chromosome in the repressor. I've got a mutation in lac z here, but as long as I have a functional copy, one functional copy of the lac repressor, it works on both chromosomes. It will work on both chromosomes anD so iN other words, this lAc repressor, one copy works on both chromosomes.  
Speaker 1    46:27    In other words, it makes the product that diffuses around and can work on either chromosome and it said to work in trans. That is across. So the operator is working in cis, it's operating on its own chromosome. Only a mutation in the operator only affects the chromosome it lives on. Whereas a functional copy of the lac repressor will float around because it's a protein. And that's how's your coban. Minoan knew the difference. They proved their model by showing that these two kinds of mutations had very different properties. Operator mutations affected only the physical chromosome on which they occurred, which of course they had to infer from the genetics they did. Whereas repressor, a functional copy of repressor could act on any chromosome in the cell. So. Okay, we've got that. Now, last point, what about glucose? I haven't Said a word about glucose. See, this was a big deal to people. This model, the repressor model, we have this. What about glucose? Glucose is doing in this picture,  
Speaker 0    47:39    so  
Speaker 1    47:43    glucose control. So here's my gene. Here's my promoter. Pete lack. Here's my operator.  
Speaker 0    47:56    Beta gal  
Speaker 1    47:58    is encoded by lexi. You've got all that. When this guy is present, when. Sorry. When? When galacTose is. When lactose is present, the repressor comes off polymerase. it's wait a second. Plumber races and supposed to sit down. Unless there's no glucose, we need another sensor to tell if there's glucose or if there's low glucose, so we're going to need a sensor that tells that. Any ideas? Yep. Have you worked that one through? I don't think it quite works, but you've got the basic idea. You're going to want another something that turns out there's another site over here, okay. There's a second site on which are completely different protein binds and this protein is the cyclic amp regulatory pro protein, and it so happens that in the cell when there's low amounts of glucose, sure I've got this right. When there is a low amounts of glucose, what we have is high amounts of cYclic amp. Cyclic amp turns out, whereas lack was lactose is used directly as the signal. Cyclic amp is used as the signal here. When the sale has low amounts of glucose, it has high amounts of cyclic amp. Now what do you want your cyclic amp to do? How are we going to design this? It's going to bind to a protein, the cyclic amp regulatory protein. It's going to sit down and now what's it going to do? Is it going to block rna polymerase?  
Speaker 1    50:03    What do we want to do if there's. If there's low glucose, high cyclic amp, we sit down at the site. We want to turn on transcription now, right? So what it's got to do is not block rna polymerase but help rna polymerase. So what it actually does is instead of being a repressor, it's an activator and what it does is it makes it more attractive for rna polymerase to bind and it actually does that by actually doesn't slightly by bending the dna. But what it does is it makes it easier for rna polymerase to bind. It turns out that the promoter is kind of a crummy promoter. It's actually just like, remember, the repressor wasn't perfect, the promoter's not perfect either. The promoters kind of crummy, and unless rna polymerase gets a little help from this other regulatory protein, it doesn't work. We have two controls, a negative regulator responding to an environmental cue, a positive activator, responding to an environmental cue, helping polymerase decide whether to transcribe or not. And basically that's how a human egg goes to a complete adult and lives its entire life. Minus a few other details. Um, there are some details left out, but that's a sketch of how you turn genes on and off. 
