Speaker 1    00:10    Hey, what's going on everybody? For first we feast. I'm Sean Evans coming at you from Ms and Soho where I'm joined by mayhem, Loran his latest project gems from the equinox with Dj muggs. It's available now. You know him from his role in Icelands. Fuck, that's delicious. Where week over week you can see him eating his way around the globe with his buddy action Bronson, but today there are only two towns in the world that really matter. The windy city in the big apple were here at ms, one of the few places in the five boroughs where he can get authentic deep dish style pizza to settle an age old debate. Where does one find the better food? New York City or Chicago now mayhem. Your queens till the death of you. One hundred percent. I have some biases of my own, but I'm coming into this with an open mind. I'm ready to have a reason to be even though I'm pro Chicago one, but you can catch me on a Jordan Jersey at any given some added mixed game.  
Speaker 1    01:04    It's nothing. You guys have done a fuck. That's delicious. Episode in Chicago. What's your foundation? What do you think of the food? They're not. Chicago is a good food city. Definitely top five, but I still believe it's about three and A. I want to send my favorite police in Chicago. We didn't go to him. Fuck, that's delicious. It's the purple pig. Michigan. Shout out to the Purple Tig. Any chance I get I sloughed off and I get that Turkey leg. Alright, so here's the main event. It's the food debate that has caused black eyes and hurt feelings for centuries. It's The New York pizza first, the Chicago style deep dish pizza,  
Speaker 1    01:42    deep dish style pizza. All the cheese that you have in the kitchen, two inches thick, piled high with toppings and what you might get killed for eating and New York style. Slice with a fork and knife. Sometimes a deep dish. It's the only option sometimes, but not now. Me and my man showing the children. If I was on a date and I don't want to make a mess of myself, maybe I pulled out a knife and fork to pretend to be civilized. My man. We're about to pick this up and jump right into it. It needs enhancement, crushed red zone, everything. Just the way I was raised takes me back slowly. It's a beautiful thing right there and that's a big deal for New Yorker to concede that people always want a nap Chicago by classifying it as something else. Not everyone who rides for New York is always like deep dish isn't real pizza.  
Speaker 1    02:36    It's a casserole, but think about it. If you're sitting down at a table, would you rather have this plate pop in front of you or this plate plop in front of you? I think that nine out of 10 people gunned ahead if they're being real about it. If you hook them up to a lie detector test would say, this plate, I won't say it. It really depends on how you feel like today, right? I'm a busy day. I have a million things to. I don't want to eat this right now because I won't be able to move after that. Some days you want to put on Air Max or some days you want to put on a Gucci sneakers. They're both great. It just depends on how you're feeling. Many times I've been shirtless in the Thompson hotel ordering a little mouse staring at the window, reflecting on life in New York style slice. It's wire, it's thinner. You eat it with a crease down the middle. It's portable. It's light on sauce. It's heavy on cheese. All right, I'm going to take a bite of this New York slice.  
Speaker 1    03:31    Now, this one's from Joe's. Joe's makes Great New York style pizza, but what's your go to New York joint? Shout out to Danny's house of pizza at a specialist. Semi sweet sauce. They also have a pistol slice. I usually get one on one with an order. A big clamps. Go to Danny's sweet sauce, Pesto, big Glam. It's over as a New Yorker. What's the perfect slice? What's a slice that bricks? The main ingredient in a New York slice is 100 percent source. Anybody can melt cheese on dope. It's what's in between that makes or breaks a slice gears to me, but also makes Chicago pizza special is the leftovers are just as good, if not better than when they're served oven fresh at the restaurant. I feel the same thing about in New York stays. Sometimes you wake up, put it back in the oven, it's extra crispy. You might even grow some peppers and onions and throw more topics.  
Speaker 1    04:24    You feel fancy in the morning. You know what I mean? Same thing. All right. Before we turned the page and pizza and put a bow on the episode, we have a little pizza bonus. You know Chicago might be famous for the deep dish, but some people might be surprised to know that it does. Then crust almost just as well. You ready for this one so you never have to talk me into a slide. Look at this already. That's how your time it up to here we are boys. This is the silent assassin from Chicago, the little known Chicago style thin crust pizza. Well, at first glance you can see there's really not like an outer cross I could you see on like a typical New York slice, right? She's goes all the way to the end and you see as kind of cut into squares. If I pick up a slice, she don't mind me doing.  
Speaker 1    05:06    Go for it. It's cracker thin, right? You can actually hear it crack. It's like a piece of Matzah right there. Record things. Yeah. Are tough. Hold on, hold on. I feel bad man. I got my man in the cut your mugs. Come through man. Take a slice that they brought out. The bonus part. You got to eat with us for mugs. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. So we break bread. Cheers. This is good. This is very like you win a championship and little league. You win some sort of basketball tournament team going out for pizza afterwards. It's this style. I would say most pizzerias in Chicago was served this and this is what we kind of grew up with. So you just made there for tourists right down to the bills, man. Just shake down to visit us and they got me. I'm hooked.  
Speaker 1    05:52    All right. Table cleared. This experiment aside in Chicago, a better food city than New York in your opinion or no? Nah. New York has the best food city in the world. So many options. Too much to offer it. Cleans alone is the most culturally diverse place in the world. There's just no city can compare it to New York and you're hearing that from mayhem on Youtube, so you know it's gospel jams from the equinox. Catch it. Fuck. That's delicious. You already know Caesar's reasonable in the way. Sorry. You know, you know I've got to jump in and spit that out. Closing together, man. Chicago, New York. Things slow. 
