Speaker 0    00:00    We don't predict our financials. Yeah, I think that there's a lot of things changing at apple right now and um, some are going to show up in the financials positively. Some are going to show up in the financials negatively and I think that we're going to get to a new trend, uh, but that new trend will not become evident for another quarter. So, um, so I really don't think it helps to predict right now. I think we have a very clear target on where we're going in that regards and we think profitability is very, very important. What I said was that we examined the future product roadmap, not the products that are shipping today, the future ones that we were working on. And what we found was that 30 percent of them were incredibly good and about 70 percent of them were either pretty good or things that we didn't really need to be doing.  
Speaker 0    00:43    Businesses we really didn't need to be in. And so we've paired a lot of that back so we could focus the same amount of original resource even more on what was remaining and add a few new things in. So the resources that we're investing are equal or greater than we have been, but it's on fewer things. So we're going to do a better job at them. I think there are not going to be any corporate, massive layoffs. What we're doing is we have, I think, a pretty clear direction now and each group is looking at the work plans to do what they need to do to, uh, to, to accomplish the pieces of that that they have to do. And we are reorganizing some things a little bit differently, combining things in a few different ways. And in some cases when the music stops, there'll be some people that don't have a chair, but that'll be on a department by department basis.  
Speaker 0    01:30    It'll be, you know, a fairly low key thing. We're not talking about any massive layoffs while I, you know, again, we don't predict, but what I will say is two things. Number one, apple is trading at around a third times. It's sales right now. Many of Apple's competitors are trading at two to five times their sales, so that's just one observation. You can draw whatever conclusions you want, and the second thing I would say is that somebody taught me a long time ago, a very valuable lesson, which is if you do the right things on the top line, the bottom line will follow and what they meant by that was if you get the right strategy, if you have the right people, and if you have the right culture culture at your company, you'll do the right products. You'll do the right marketing, you'll do the right things logistically and in manufacturing and distribution, and if you do all those things right, the bottom line will follow.  
Speaker 0    02:19    So yes, we have obviously plans about where we'd like to see the bottom line, but we are focusing most of our energy not on financial reengineering because that's not what's been been troubled at Apple. We're focusing our energy on the right product strategies, the right market strategies, the right communication strategies, the right logistics and distribution strategies. And we, the team is making, I think, very strong strides in these areas and you'll start to see some of this stuff appear, you know, in the next 90, a hundred and 20 days. So I'm actually really happy about this. I sold my stock before I got the call from the board that they wanted me to come in and shepherd apple for this period. Uh, and that was unfortunate. I wish to call it come a week earlier, but I wasn't a mind reader so I didn't know. And in terms of my own, you know, personal financial stuff, I usually don't discuss that with people except my family.  
Speaker 0    03:10    I'm working pretty hard. And uh, so there are a lot of people, but I'm one of them, my cars there pretty early and it's in the parking lot, pretty late and on weekends. So, um, and I valued my family time a lot. So I, I'm pretty committed to this, uh, and seeing apple turn around the company. I mean, it's, I started the company with Steve Wasniak in my parents garage, you know, 20 years ago and uh, over 22 years ago. And so there's a definite place in my heart for this, a, I'm drawing a salary of I think a dollar per year. So, uh, I hope I'm not burdening the shareholders too much and, and I, I very much want to see applicant turned around and I think it's going to. So I don't know how much more committed I could be if people need these symbols.  
Speaker 0    03:59    Well maybe that'll happen. I don't know. But, but, um, you know, my answer to them is I don't know how I could be working any harder and we are starting to make some changes in the channel. We are starting to talk to our major channel partners and see who's going to really make a big recommitment to apple who's going to put an investment in to really make sure that the buying experience is so much better than it has been. And again, I'm incredibly pleased with the results we're getting. The, the, the, the key channel partners are coming back saying, you know, I believe in you guys, what you've shown me, I'm incredibly excited about it and I want to clean up this retail experience for the customer. I think it's going pretty well. I mean, these things are never, uh, never happen overnight. But, uh, we've had more people of very high quality be interested than, than than I expected.  
Speaker 0    04:44    And the board. Do you think the board agrees on what's right for apple or them and getting to know me and each other as well? You know, you're talking about a very talented group of people on this board. I mean several ceos, very opinionated, which is great, but you know, great people, when they have different opinions, they, they, they usually can convince each other that one of them's right or pick up one that's better than all of them within a very short period of time. So this is a group of people that is quite talented and you've got a lot of ceos. I mean Larry Ellison, CEO, the second largest software company in the world, Bill Campbell, CEO of intuit. One of the largest consumer software companies in the world, ed Woolard, former CEO of dupont, I mean you've got a lot of very high powered people on this board, Jerry York, you know the cfo of both Chrysler and IBM during its turnaround.  
Speaker 0    05:30    So there's some very, very strong people on this board. You've asked. I think they have really jelled, which is nice, which I've noticed something in my life which is the people that are really good, never worry about things like that. The people that are really good want to work with the best people. They can find hopefully people that are even better than them. You know? I mean that's my view of things is if you work with people that aren't as good as you, you know, you become a country of midgets. If you work with people that are better than you, then you really grow. So I guess what can I say? If the CEO you find you got a great deal, the great person, you're ready to close the deal and he says, or she says, you know what Steve, I just, I want your advice. I don't want you on the board. You Go, oh sure. I've told the board I, if that was a problem, I would. The reason  
Speaker 1    06:28    that  
Speaker 0    06:30    we recruit such a strong board you so that we have a strong board and this strong board is going to do the right thing for apple. They're not going to do the right thing for themselves. They're not going to do the right thing for me. They're not going to do the right thing for some new candidate. They want to lure away. They're going to do the right thing for apple and whatever that is. I support that a thousand percent. And every board member supports that 100 percent. So, you know, that's why we recruited such good people. I mean these are not, these are not a,  
Speaker 1    07:02    you know,  
Speaker 0    07:03    old crony friends of one person or another. These are very independent, very talented people and they're going to do the right thing for this company. But I think, you know, I actually don't look at it as a deal. I look at it as, um, an event that was the beginning of putting the relationship between the two companies back on track. Again, apple and Microsoft together own 100 percent of the desktop computer market. And it was crazy that these companies weren't working together. Now again, they're not going to see everything the same way. We're very different than Microsoft, so we're not, we're doing a lot of things. We're going to see things differently. But that doesn't mean that there aren't a lot of things where we can see things the same and work together for things that are good for the customer and where we both can make money.  
Speaker 0    07:44    So what we try to do is normalize the relationship with Microsoft so that we can be very different but still do business together and do things that are right for the customers. And I think that the relationship had been so polarized that that wasn't taking place since that event. We've started a lot of things with Microsoft that I think will be really good for customers. You know, clearly putting the relationship back together was bill and Steve because bill and I go way back and uh, as you know, when I was at apple, there was not a hostile relationship between the two companies. As a matter of fact, a macintosh was the first platform that brought Microsoft into the applications business. So my feeling is is that, you know, Bill and Steve have have ignited a relationship, but now it is, it has really permeated fairly far in the organizations and there's a lot of stuff going on.  
Speaker 0    08:30    We still see things very differently in some ways and so don't expect us to become like Microsoft and don't expect Microsoft to become like us. But there's a lot of things we can be doing together nonetheless as the two people that really are responsible for the desktop computer industry. I think the, I think the situation had become so polarized that, that I wasn't that surprised emotionally. I was little surprised, but intellectually I wasn't here. But you know, it takes people time to get used to new things. And, and what we have to do is to change apple in those ways that make sense and to vigorously not change apple in those ways that, that apple is great. So I think that, you know, you're going to see some of each. You're going to see apple remaining absolutely recommitted to its values and you're going to see apple changes some things that, that it just either are outdated or haven't worked or don't make sense anymore to the customers.  
Speaker 0    09:24    Did it hurt? What's a fitted her to have your people, the people who love you, boo. You like that is. See? Huh? I didn't know this was people. People magazine. No. Well this is this, there is. And I'd like to, I'd like to know you, you brought it up yourself. Use that emotion, you know, emotionally, you know. No, I mean I, I don't feel my job is to win a popularity contest right now and I feel my job is to help the team at apple do the right things to turn this company around so that it can really prosper again. And, and I think that's going to happen. And if, if some, you know, some people, I mean the markets, we're talking markets now that are so large that there's someone or some group of people that aren't going to like just about anything we do, but my job's not to win a popularity contest, but I think it's what apple stands for, you know, it's, it's a very rare thing in this world when a company can really bring sort of the right and the left brain together and say we're about doing, you know, the right things to make money in a successful business.  
Speaker 0    10:30    But we also have the passion and the creativity and the inventiveness to push this industry forward and to work with our customers to take these tools in, in ways they've never been before to help them go change the world. And apple has a history, a track record of doing just that. And I think that that's, that's got a place in people's hearts and I think apple still has a lot of that and we're going to get rid of a lot of the bramble in the brush around that so that, that can shine again. The. No, I think apple has delivered some pretty good stuff. Uh, I think apple is going to get back to delivering some great stuff, but life is long, but as far as we see, we really liked the power pc. We think they're an incredibly wonderful place in the curve right now. I'm the power PC. Chips are, are really outperforming the intel chips and um, we really like what's coming down the pike there. So who knows what the future will bring, but we're extremely happy with the power pc working very closely with IBM. Motorola.  
Speaker 2    11:28    Hey there. Thanks for checking out CNBC on Youtube. Be sure to subscribe to stay up to date on all of the day's biggest stories. You can also click on any of the videos around me to watch the latest from CNBC. Thanks for watching. 
