Speaker 0    00:04    Hi America, My name is rob shelf. Now I'm the CEO of Venmo, the simple fund money app that enables quick and easy payments between friends while providing the full experience of a social media platform started out as the dream of two engineering students. What if you could like a financial transaction? What if you could friend request your landlord? What if you could comment on a work colleagues? Electricity Bill. This exciting idea was roundly rejected by the vast majority of our user base who foolishly chose to ignore all the fun social aspect of Venmo that we worked so hard on. Guys, we're in the middle of the take. Uh, can we just lock it up? What's going on? No, I read it correctly. I'm calling them foolish because Venmo is fun and you'd have to be stupid to not realize that it's fun with facebook. Quickly unraveling democracy and twitter full to bursting with Nazis. Why not head over to Venmo and make us the new home of social media? Posts your heart out with the understanding that every post must be accompanied by a financial transaction of some sort. Is that what's messing us up that you can't just post? It has to be accompanied by exchange of money?
Speaker 0    01:19    No, no. That. That rules. That kicks in. Users, man. They suck. They suck. They suck. I'm good. I'm good. They suck you. Of course. The board knows I'm doing this. What do you think? I'm on the Sea of you. Oh, is that them on the phone? Hi Walter. Hello. I can hear you're upset. So stand is that once we are extremely profitable, the company has accomplished its objective. You do feel that way? Well, I find that boring. I don't think that's cool and I think. Cool. This something that is a form of currency as well. Don't yell. The reason I was brought onto this company is that I understand. Yeah. People. I know what's hip. I know what's on. I know what's lit. I know what's fleek. That's why I'm here. You're young, you're young. You're an intern, right? You want social media. Social media. Yeah. Cool. What's your finance app? What do use for finance, but he's finance. I'll a square, square, square, square. Cash.
Speaker 0    02:38    You're fired. You didn't see it before, but she's. She's very hostile. With venmo platinum, you'll be able to socialize with only the most active venmo users, celebrities, improv coaches, drug dealers, and with such features as scheduled payments, verification, and actually being able to tell or not. You're paying the right person. The future of Venmo is more than golden. It's platinum, but you can only get it if you routinely get 20 likes on a post. How hard is that? I'm not asking you to park. I'm asking for something. Engaging content that we can license into a franchise of Dwayne, the Rock Johnson film. Facebook is full of Russian bots. In truth, there's twitter pledge week. Get the right stock. The planets have aligned for those big day and we're blowing it because of you. You guys know you can put whatever you want in the comments, right? You don't have to say it's the actual thing that you're paying for instead of a cab, right? Right. Blow job. Ha Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, comedy. Okay. Something is one thing, but through comedy you just say blow job and it's funny. What do you mean? People are naturally shy in anti social when they're discussing their personal finances. You sound stupid. You can be in a movie with the Rock. Do you want that or do you want to live a stupid life where nothing happens?
Speaker 1    04:17    Could have been you?
Speaker 0    04:25    Hey guys, it's Brendon from college humor. Click here to subscribe. Click here for fun stuff and please keep watching because it stopped watching. I start to manage. Get it. I'm not really real. I'm just a thing on your screen
