Speaker 1    00:07    Might notice that one, I'm not a gym. Instead I'm handcuffed to this computer chair, escapable prison. This Max security as Cabana bullshit handcuff here with real police handcuffs. Definitely not bright red sex cuffs that a golf with my dresser, my hair dresser, a need who I hit on the reg. I'm performing this study because I'm attempting a rest day. I'm in prison. Have jammed up. This is the struggle with Nelson Mandela. Guantanamo Bay. Have you ever not worked out for four hours? No. Since I can remember, I can remember as far back as yesterday. I have not done a taking a best day  
Speaker 1    00:57    before I go ahead and commit muscle suicide on live TV. Let me go ahead and tell you exactly why. West days of bullshit. First off, what is arrested? A day taken off of lifting to allow your body to allegedly, but definitely not recover and build muscle. It's pretty much in a day spent in a coma. What is rest? Me? Okay. It means two things. One, the act of stagnant rotting to the leftovers. The shit that nobody wants. It's like my grandma used to say, oh, your hands are the devil's playthings, which means if you rest, the devil is going to use your hands to drug himself off. Is that what you want? Do you want to give the devil a Dutch?  
Speaker 0    01:44    Before  
Speaker 1    01:44    you answer that, let's think about for a second who rests? Baby's deceased. Your opinions in the fucking lunch breaks. Sleeping beauty. Who's a chick sleepy? The Dwarf who was a dwarf. Anyone wanted a snuggie? Ipso facto rest is for the week. This may come as a shock to you, but when you walk out, you get stronger. So what the hell are you wasting from? I don't even have weekdays on my calendar. Only strong gauge. Why do people say rest days are employed? Easy, easy answer, ignorance. They are simple tense. Who say that you build muscle when you rest. Okay, smart guy. If that's true, if you build muscle when you west then what about sloss? Waiter, waiter, I'll take the check. Please check me. Resting doesn't mean that you don't have to go to the gym every day. It means that when you're not in the gym, make sure all your doing is rested. Got a steady job. Quit that you're self employed now. Thank you. Found true love guests again, Jennifer. Interesting. You're married to the game. Now. You got any other hobbies and interests? We both know you, don't you? Virginia. You're not a Jew. Dolphin, you don't have any other tricks up your sleeve because you don't wear sleeves. You're a gym rat. I got one thing on your mind. Well, where's the fucking cheese? The shredded Cheddar. Pepper Jack to me, buddy. Come on, working out, down there. Let's go deal.  
Speaker 1    03:22    Then these haters are going to tell you that you're overtraining. People don't want to see other people do better than them. It's both fact. When you get bigger, someone else gets small. No one going to help you make them smaller. They're going to tell you to rest. That's what they're gonna do.  
Speaker 0    03:40    Bill  
Speaker 1    03:42    overtraining is a lot like overwhelming. She the only people that bitch about it. All the ones that can't stand the heat. You don't drive a prius because he cared about us. You drive a Prius because you can't afford not to where my car was at a gas. I go back to the dealership and buy fucking no one. I'd rather overtrain then on the game ct Fletcher ever took a rest day. You will be 54. No, he would be dead. That's why they call it rest in peace. It's like the movie cried. You Stop, you die.  
Speaker 0    04:16    Good.  
Speaker 1    04:24    Give me, give me a pen. Roshea and redemption. Get busy with or get busy. Dying by far. The worst part about arresting is being alone with yourself without a pump. It's not being at the gym and realizing you have nothing else going on in your life. It's like being out in public without your phone. What are you going to do now? Have a personality rather kill myself. Shouldn't have scribbled it. Can't get over this fucking wall art. You can tell me about the joke.  
Speaker 1    05:22    Got a best friend that you want to do a proper rest state. Let me tell you how to do it proper rest day, right? There's three ways to do it. Number one, do only seated exercises. Check number two, train the rest of the muscles you always forget to train abs calves for alarms, anything but legs. That's when you take a rest day. And lastly, you could follow my workouts, which you can download it online for $69, 99. You could pay for this, right? You could venmo me the money to pay for it. Monday, chest Tuesday on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, and Sunday rest. And the moms  
Speaker 0    06:15    no.  
Speaker 1    06:30    Please subscribe to my youtube channel, new videos if I ever get the fuck out of this chair. So you fall. You wanted this video, but wally have you captive. Let me tell you this. The scientists have discovered a new product of BCA attack. This is classified for ebook, rusty Shank, murder your workout. Sneak up behind you while you're there. Shopping and spending your money. Sign up for the contest to win a dinner with none other than this guy locked in the chair right here. We can bring the cuffs to if you're relating when you do have to be in the Los Angeles every year. I'm not flying. Well you're not a hookup. If you are, we can work something out. It's quid pro quo. He like squid Calamari. That's cool. Lastly, I will be at the Olympia this weekend, Friday and Saturday. Booth 18, 63 dogs out promo. 
